you're probably aware that the economy
is addicted to low interest rates and of
course without them there's nothing but
pain in today's video we are going to
look at what's happening here as a
result you came here for the truth so
let me unveil that for you it's
important that we understand what's
happening I'm going to give you one
indication and then we're going to look
at what's happening in the economy with
the jobs and some wild indications of
what's really really going on that's
what we'll look at beginning with this I
want to look at the shipping industry
when we look at Freight it tells a story
and we're going to see what's happening
here from this one indicator which is
the Baltic dry index and it is way down
off its peak that crazy time in
2021 um certainly it's been higher in
2008 it was much much higher than even
that peak in 2021 but we are are off the
highs that you know even in recent times
as well this is just one just one way to
look at it and it shows us that overall
there isn't that strength and you look
at it in a different way the prices that
you pay for a shipping container from
any location to any location all the
major hubs the prices are down back to
where they were largely before 2020 so
there was an anomaly certainly during
this period 2020 into 2021 leading all
the way into 2022 and these companies
made a you know a
profit and one of those companies was
the biggest in the world mesk now you
can see things have certainly turned
around they their stock has performed
extremely poorly over the last couple
years tracking exactly what you saw just
a moment ago where as the prices were
going through the roof so so was their
stock and now things have changed what
does it tell us is it because of that
one particular stock that's having a
problem is it just because of the prices
or is there something else well here you
can see this one company and just to let
you know they have laid off 10,000
employees we've seen it with the banks
we've seen it all over the place many
different companies are getting rid of
people today and it seems to be every
industry at the this time it's not like
a major selloff it's not a major deal
they're you know taking people from here
taking from there 5% 2% 10% in some
cases but we're not quite you know 2008
levels yet but I'm paying attention are
you let's look further at this and start
to ask a few questions the overall
globally right now manufacturing PMI is
in a
contraction what does that tell us well
tells us a few things and we have to ask
the question that Ryan Reynolds is right
here but why and it's important if you
look at what's happening on a global
level we take the shipping we take the
FRS and that starts to answer some
questions if China deals with Brazil
China is dealing with the
US uh United States is dealing with
Europe we can look at the imports and
exports we can look at that on many
different levels we can see individual
companies we could look at the prices of
the containers we could see the
different data that's coming through
usually it's a bit
delayed either way we start to track all
these little dots we connect them
together at least I do that here on the
channel do that for you to make your
life easy and so what we are seeing is
you know a big change in some cases
where there's not enough Imports coming
through and there's not enough ports
going out what does that tell us well
the consumer may have either had you
know just a change of heart they don't
want that stuff anymore everybody for a
while there was buying quinoa and it was
like a big problem in Bolivia and all
these other places where they said we
don't even have any for the domestic
consumption anymore because that became
a trend what about celery for a while
everybody was eating and juicing celery
and the stores you know the prices just
went through the roof these do happen
but when we're seeing it globally and
we're seeing it affecting just about
everything it's not a trend on Tik Tok
okay there there's much more going on
and so Ryan Reynolds says why let me
show
you this is a big one big one since
April
2023 look at the difference in these two
types of surveys you have on the left
hand side the jobs as they say which is
the establishment survey that's the
numbers you'll see in the cnbc's and the
Bloomberg's and all over the news Okay
since April 2023 1.2
million but what's that other one it
looks a lot smaller and that's actual
employees it's very different number in
fact it's off by 1 million there's a 1
million difference between household
survey and the establishment survey and
I've gone in depth on both of these
before in other videos
um but what this basically means is well
the jobs numbers can be skewed they can
be skewed by one major thing I'll show
you that
now multiple job holders there right now
are a record number of multiple job
holders that is 8.5 million multiple job
holders they could have two jobs they
could have three and four jobs what
about temporary jobs that is affecting
it as well
and so when you see the oh we've created
a million jobs have they or have people
been getting laid off they're coming
back they're getting laid off they're
coming back or you know they work 9 to-5
here they work you know on on the
weekend over there they're doing all
these things to make up for the fact
that life is too expensive because the
central banks devalued their currencies
and now they got to take multiple jobs
that's you that's your neighbors that's
the people in general that's what we've
got to deal with today because of their
mismanagement the they force This
so-call legal tender on us and then they
go mismanage it and we have to pay the
price why do we have to pay the price
for that that's what we got to deal with
okay and it's my job it's my duty to
bring you the truth so that you can
Thrive and prosper during these times
so let's look further into it knowledge
is the first
step 62% of Americans are still living
paycheck to paycheck making making it
the Main Financial lifestyle I mean when
I read that quote uh further down they
give you the full thing but essentially
saying for the majority of people the
majority of people paycheck to paycheck
is the main way to go and that is a
shocker
now the number of 62% you get a survey
here survey there you know doesn't
matter how how you want to look at that
some I've seen
70% whatever the point is the vast
majority of people no matter what their
income is they are living paycheck to
paycheck is that a good strong healthy
economy um well you can tell me I have
an
opinion look at this M2 has a percentage
of the GDP versus GDP growth and and
what we're seeing here is that the M2
that's the money supply like how much
cash is in circulation okay that growth
has come down a lot and we need
generally we need the money supply to
grow in order for the economy to grow
because this is a debt based system and
so during this period where we you know
pumped in so much we're now going in the
opposite direction
and the economy doesn't like that the
stock market doesn't like that the bond
market doesn't nothing likes that when
like things get all out of whack nothing
makes sense during these periods because
we've been so heavily Reliant like an
addict just waiting for their next hit
come on give it to me but unfortunately
right now it doesn't look like that's
happening now the fed you know the the
preemptive fed pivot has happened
happened where Jerome Powell has
basically said you know what we're we're
kind of done uh but that isn't the the
you know the adrenaline shot that's
needed right now it's not the
espresso so what I'm seeing here is that
contraction which does have a
deflationary or slowdown effect on the
economy in general markets different
story but the economy in general we're
seeing it all the indications have
popped up no question retail sales don't
predict recessions and so uh while we
can see that there might not be the best
correlation here I just wanted to show
you that during this period that usually
it's during the recession You could
argue like in 2008 where you know people
are scared so they stop spending but not
necessarily beforehand and the reason I
mentioned this
is you know until somebody Los loses
their job they're going to spend
paycheck to paycheck and that's it you
don't say well the consumer has slowed
down their for recessions coming
therefore that no don't they will go
wildly coyote right off the cliff and
then when that happens they look they're
looking up during that period and
they're you know watching The Road
Runner as they fall down to the ground
that's what goes on every single time
compare this every single time Fed rate
hikes unemployment and recessions you
see it it's incredible when we look at
it everything's all fine unemployment's
going down down down down down oh we
have a recession flips the opposite way
exactly on Q when we um look at it with
the interest rates they are completely
correlated each and every single time
it's unbelievable but that's the world
we are in where Cycles repeat
patterns repeat and we need to pay
attention to those you could see what's
happening I think it's extremely
important that we follow that um because
it's going to give us the telltale signs
so what have we learned number one we
got to understand right here and now
that the economy is looking weak on many
fronts what does the economy need in
order for that to turn around in order
for jobs to be created real jobs to be
created and people to feel more
prosperity and abundance the shortterm
solution solution is that adrenaline
shot that they would print more money
devalue the currency oh but you know in
the short run they'd be I don't want to
call it fixing but that's what they
would say they would be fixing the
problem long term that makes it much
worse even in the medium term why
because they're going to make home
prices go up much higher making them
much more unaffordable rent prices could
go up as well all assets could be
completely out of reach for people oh
but those get their stimulus check oh
but they'll get their Universal basic
income you see the problem here look if
you want this in depth each and every
week I go with a small group of people
on zoom and we go through these things
on the Friday session where we're
talking about the economy I do a full
presentation where we look at a few
things I talk about it in depth then we
look at what's going on in the stock
market I show you the charts all of
these things are part of that small
group I call it the mentorship uh and
then the Sunday session is all about
e-commerce it's about business we talk
about how to make money so there's two
different things whichever you know
suits your fancy we can get into
that you know you can go to this page
right here that I got lined up for you
you can get more details you click apply
now and I will give you more information
if you uh if you want that don't be shy
reach out I want to see you there link
is right at the top of the description
comment of the day this is a funny one
thank you very much for this you know I
was just thinking to myself today I
really just don't feel like I'm paying
enough for my cost of living yeah that's
right don't we all and it made a comment
of the day no question because doesn't
that seem like the way it is it's like
we're just
getting you know shoved pushed and
shoved and it seems like it's never
ending sometimes well what we can do is
do our best we can get the new new
skills that we have or we can monetize
the skills we currently have if you want
more information you reach out to me and
I'll see you on the next one take care